
# Software in hobby-level subtractive manufacturing

---

# Additive vs subtractive

Note: pottery vs sculpture. CNC older than 3d printing, usually better results

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="./images/freecad.png" -->
# 1. Get/Draw a model (CAD)
> FreeCAD (any platform)

Note: FreeCAD is awesome. You can quickly draw stuff, you can do parametrized models. Intuitive and free software.

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="./images/fusion360.png" -->
# 2. Make a toolpath (CAM)
> Autodesk's Fusion 360 (Windows or Mac, graphic problems in VMs)

Note: Get from a model to instructions for the machine - called GCode. You select an area and define whether you want to mill inside or outside. Least friction to use, price is 0 if you ask nicely. 

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="./images/gwizard.png" -->
# 2a. Feeds and speeds.
> GWizard (Adobe AIR - Windows native, Linux under Wine)

Note: For a particular tool you need to know how fast to rotate it and how fast it can go through the material. the only reasonable feeds and speeds calculator on the market

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="./images/gwizarde.png" -->
# 2b. Iterating on the GCode generated
> GWizard Editor/CAMotics/custom python scripts

Note: No autogenerated GCode is 100% correct. Simulate first, sprinkle any machine or process-specific commands. Gwizard Editor is an IDE

---

<!-- .slide: data-background="./images/linuxcnc.png" -->
# 3. Machine control and GCode execution
> LinuxCNC (custom realtime Linux distro)

---

# CNC software space awaits disruption

Note: 3D printing software workflow much more enjoyable. FreeCAD's Path seems promising.
